https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1mKMzuFHMluBt8ajiTC_PROsgWfCm2Y0KH5LbSw8HO-0/edit?usp=sharing


MARBLE LEAGUE SPEED INDEX METHODOLOGY:
 
1) THE EVENTS. I use 23 events across ML, ML Qualifiers and ML Showdown I consider "racing events." Any result by a marble within those 23 events are used to calculate the Index.
 
2016: Sand Rally, Hurdles, Water Race, 10m Sprint
2017: Sand Rally, Hurdles, Relay, 5m Sprint, Underwater Race, Steeplechase
2018: Snow Rally, 5m Ice Dash, Speed Skating, Snowboard Cross, Biathlon, Sand Moguls
2019: Sand Rally, Hurdles, Relay, 5m Spring, Underwater Race, Biathlon, Elimination Race (First round only)
 
Most notably I exclude 2016 Relay (because of lack of confidence in imputation), 2019 Dirt Race (high # of DSQ) and 2019 Elimination Race (cleaning up finals times was too much work at the moment).
 
2) TIME IMPUTATION. JMR does not record individual legs for team races like the biathlon or relay. I first recorded these times using existing work as well as doing my own frame-by-frame analysis of the race videos.
 
To match these times to marbles, I have to assume an order in which marbles race. When the Crazy Cats' Eyes, I take the order in which they run and apply it to every other team.
 
3) STANDARDIZATION. For each event, I standardize times to have mean 0 and standard deviation 1 across the ML, Qualifier and Showdown iterations of the event in that year. These standardized scores are what's aggregated over events.
Exceptions are made when there are large gaps in mean times between iterations (like ML2019 sand rally v. 2019 Showdown sand rally). For team races, I standardize results by leg instead of over the full sample.
 
4) WEIGHTING. Because most individual marbles participate in a few events (3-6), a simple average can be influenced by 1-2 outlier performances, good or bad. The best way to handle this is to have more data, but in absence of that I allowed events to be weighed differently in two ways:
 
- Discounting: I order a marble's best standardized times in descending order. Then their best performance has weight 1, their second best has weight b < 1, their nth best has weight b^(n-1) and so forth. This is intended to correct downward bias in a high-performing marble having bad outlier performances. Anyone who plays "osu!" may recognize this as the basis for its PP system.
 
- team event discounting: the relay and biathlon events are events where every marble record times, but those times depend on past legs and not directly comparable. I deflate times in these events, good or bad, by a factor of c < 1.
 
b and c are calibrated using a regression of speed index as a function of b and c on a marble's rank in events. I choose the parameter values that minimizes the SSR of the linear regression. Those values are b=0.95, c=0.525.
 
Model fit can be seen in the following scatterplot: https://imgur.com/a/sMd7ZcI
While R^2 is low at 0.075, we do see a negative correlation between rank and index that we expect.
